---
title: Software dev, WHY?
---

Deadlines, we meet again.  Launch is coming, app is broken.  Sinking feeling.  Late night.  Pizza, coke, and suddenly...

### IT WORKS!

Crap. I felt better when it was broken. I knew it should be broken.
<hr>
## Welcome to the world of software development.

<p class="lead">I break it.  I fix it.  My fix breaks it.  So I break my fix and my broken fix fixes it?!  Why am I doing this?!</p>

Breaking and fixing and breaking and fixing. It's kind of like building a house by hammering in nails and then pulling them out and then hammering them in again until the project is finished.

> You can use an eraser on the drafting table or a sledgehammer on the construction site - Frank Lloyd Wright

Ok then.  Plan.  Write things out first.  Be lazy, but a good lazy.  Write code that writes code for you.   Watch it fail. Try again.  Watch it work!  Watch it work again!  Now get excited.
<hr>
### Hello World!

``` javascript
function nerd_alert(){
  alert("The world is now your oyster.  Make something.");
}

nerd_alert();
```

##### It's not about coding really, its about building, shipping, and changing.

Authors know how to spell, but they usually aren't national spelling bee champions.  Yes you need to learn the ropes, you can't fake this.. but I find it easier to put up with the grind if you allow yourself to dream a bit.  

#### Global Reach

I can make something and everyone can see it, use it, judge it, and interact with it.  That is both awesome and terrifying.

We now have global access and immediate shipping of products we can make at home, and that is awesome.  You can make your art, music, stories, and ideas available in an instant once you have this knowledge.  It doesn't have to all be drugery.

#### Embrace the grind

You will write terrible code.  You will read terrible code.  You will run into egos.  You will work on apps you hate.  Do you.

I got into this years ago by accident really, I was in school looking for a job and was offered one on the basis that I learned to code. 

My first project ever was a [light refraction simulator. ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rainbow#Explanation){:target="_blank"}  It was hard.  Then I shipped it.  Things got better.

#### Skillz to pay the billz

Without a doubt, learning to code is an investment that pays off.  Want a 9-5? Do it.  Work remote? Do it.  Create your own startup? DO IT!

Check out these [stats.](http://stackoverflow.com/research/developer-survey-2016#work-salary){:target="_blank"} 

##### But salary isn't enough, so why really do it?

<hr>
## Because you can make something stupid
Or smart, clever, usefull, or helpfull..And love every minute of it.

This is what makes it worth it to me.  

> It's all talk until the code runs.
  — Ward Cunningham